.TH "TCRMTTEST" 1 "2010-08-05" "Man Page" "Tokyo Tyrant"

.SH NAME
tcrmttest \- test cases of the remote database API

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The command `\fBtcrmttest\fR' is a utility for facility test under multi\-thread situation.  This command is used in the following format.  `\fIhost\fR' specifies the host name of the server.  `\fIrnum\fR' specifies the number of iterations.
.PP
.RS
.br
\fBtcrmttest write \fR[\fB\-port \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tnum \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-nr\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-rnd\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-ext \fIname\fB\fR]\fB \fIhost\fB \fIrnum\fB\fR
.RS
Store records with keys of 8 bytes.  They change as `00000001', `00000002'...
.RE
.br
\fBtcrmttest read \fR[\fB\-port \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tnum \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-mul \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fIhost\fB\fR
.RS
Retrieve all records of the database above.
.RE
.br
\fBtcrmttest remove \fR[\fB\-port \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fR[\fB\-tnum \fInum\fB\fR]\fB \fIhost\fB\fR
.RS
Remove all records of the database above.
.RE
.RE
.PP
Options feature the following.
.PP
.RS
\fB\-port \fInum\fR\fR : specify the port number.
.br
\fB\-tnum \fInum\fR\fR : specify the number of running threads.
.br
\fB\-nr\fR : use the function `tcrdbputnr' instead of `tcrdbput'.
.br
\fB\-rnd\fR : select keys at random.
.br
\fB\-ext \fIname\fR\fR : call a script language extension function.
.br
\fB\-mul \fInum\fR\fR : specify the number of records for the mget command.
.br
.RE
.PP
If the port number is not more than 0, UNIX domain socket is used and the path of the socket file is specified by the host parameter.  This command returns 0 on success, another on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ttserver (1),
.BR ttultest (1),
.BR ttulmgr (1),
.BR tcrtest (1),
.BR tcrmgr (1),
.BR ttutil (3),
.BR tcrdb (3)
